---
title: RFC5 - Enhanced data limit handling
---

# RFC5 - Enhanced data limit handling

- date: 2024-11-19
- author: Tom Kralidis
- contact: tomkralidis@gmail.com
- status: draft
- modified: 2024-11-19

## Overview

This RFC describes enhanced limit handling implementation in support of better definition and control on data query limiting.

Currently, pygeoapi defines a `server.limit` configuration directive which corresponds to the `limit` query parameter as part of the OGC API - Features and OGC API - Records `.../items` endpoint.  The following scenarios are missing from this setting:

- the ability for the server to provide a default limit when the user does not explicitly specify a limit
- the ability for the server to provide a maximum limit when the user specifies a limit that is deemed too large by the server to process
- given this setting is defined at the server level, it may not be suitable for all datasets in a given configuration
- limits currently only apply to vector data

## Proposed solution

pygeoapi will define a `limits` configuration parameter that will allow a user to define default and maximum limits for multiple data types.  This parameter will be defined at the server level (`server.limits`) with the ability to override at resource level (`resources[*].limits`).  An example of this setting is shown below:

```yaml
limits:
    defaultitems: 10  # applies to vector data
    maxitems: 500  # applies to vector data
    maxdistance: [x, y]  # applies to all datasets
```

The `limits` setting will be applied as follows:

- pygeoapi administrator is able to use at both the `server` and `resources` levels, with `resources` limits overriding server wide `limits` settings
- no limit specified by client: use `limits.defaultitems` to set the result set size
- limit specified by client: calculate the minimum of the query parameter and `limits.maxitems` to set the result set size
- bbox or spatial dimensions: compare distance of request to maximum definition allowed in `limits.maxdistance`

## Implementation

An `evaluate_limit` function will be added to the `pygeoapi` module for use by `pygeoapi.api` accordingly.

### Backwards Compatibility Issues

The `limits` setting fully replaces `server.limit` and represents a compatibility break.  The new functionality will not be backported to other branches.

### Testing

Tests will be added to ensure the expected functionality.

### Documentation

Documentation will be added to the configuration description page.

## Issue and Pull Request tracking

Issue: <https://github.com/geopython/pygeoapi/issues/1856>

Branch: <https://github.com/geopython/pygeoapi/tree/limits>

Pull Request: TBD

## Voting History

TBD
